Privacy Policy
Last updated: August 18th 2025

This Privacy Policy describes Our policies and procedures on the collection, use and disclosure of Your information when You use the Next Generation Incident Command System (NICS) and tells You about Your privacy rights and how the law protects You.
We use Your Personal data to provide and improve NICS. By using NICS, You agree to the collection and use of information in accordance with this Privacy Policy.

**Interpretation and Definitions**
Interpretation
The words of which the initial letter is capitalized have meanings defined under the following conditions. The following definitions shall have the same meaning regardless of whether they appear in singular or in plural.

Definitions

**For the purposes of this Privacy Policy:**
Account means a unique account created for You to access our Service or parts of our Service.
Application means the software program provided by Massachusetts Institute of Technology Lincoln Laboratory downloaded by You on any electronic device, named My App
Massachusetts Institute of Technology Lincoln Laboratory (referred to as either "Massachusetts Institute of Technology Lincoln Laboratory", "MITLL", "We", "Us", or "Our"; in this Agreement) refers to the organization that developed the NICS mobile application.
Country refers to: United States
Device means any device that can access NICS such as a computer, a cellphone or a digital tablet.
Personal Data is any information that relates to an identified or identifiable individual.
Service refers to the Application.
Service Provider means any natural or legal person who processes the data on behalf of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Lincoln Laboratory. It refers to third-party companies or individuals employed by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Lincoln Laboratory to facilitate NICS, to provide NICS on behalf of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Lincoln Laboratory, to perform services related to NICS or to assist the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Lincoln Laboratory in analyzing how NICS is used.
Usage Data refers to data collected automatically, either generated by the use of NICS or from NICS infrastructure itself (for example, the duration of a page visit).
You means the individual accessing or using NICS, or the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Lincoln Laboratory, or other legal entity on behalf of which such individual is accessing or using NICS, as applicable.

**Collecting and Using Your Personal Data**
Types of Data Collected
Personal Data
While using Our Service, We may ask You to provide Us with certain personally identifiable information that can be used to contact or identify You. Personally identifiable information may include, but is not limited to:
  Email address
  First name and last name
  Usage Data
  Location Data

**Usage Data**
Usage Data is collected automatically when using NICS.
Usage Data may include information such as Your Device's Internet Protocol address (e.g. IP address), browser type, browser version, the pages of our Service that You visit, the time and date of Your visit, the time spent on those pages, unique device identifiers and other diagnostic data.
When You access NICS by or through a mobile device, We may collect certain information automatically, including, but not limited to, the type of mobile device You use, Your mobile device unique ID, the IP address of Your mobile device, Your mobile operating system, the type of mobile Internet browser You use, unique device identifiers and other diagnostic data.
We may also collect information that Your browser sends whenever You visit our Service or when You access NICS by or through a mobile device.

Information Collected while Using the Application
While using Our Application, in order to provide features of Our Application, We may collect, with Your prior permission:
  Information regarding your location, including mobile device background location
  Pictures and other information from your Device's camera and photo library

We use this information to provide features of Our Service, to improve and customize Our Service. The information may be uploaded to the addition NICS servers and/or a Service Provider's server or it may be simply stored on Your device.
You can enable or disable access to this information at any time, through Your Device settings. Background location may be turned off inside the NICS mobile app or through your Device Settings.
Use of Your Personal Data
The NICS organization that You are accessing may use Personal Data for the following purposes:

To provide and maintain our Service, including to monitor the usage of our Service.

To manage Your Account: to manage Your registration as a user of NICS. The Personal Data You provide can give You access to different functionalities of NICS that are available to You as a registered user.

To contact You: To contact You by email, telephone calls, SMS, or other equivalent forms of electronic communication, such as a mobile application's push notifications regarding updates or informative communications related to the functionalities, products or contracted services, including the security updates, when necessary or reasonable for their implementation.

To manage Your requests: To attend and manage Your requests to Us.

For other purposes: We may use Your information for other purposes, such as data analysis, identifying usage trends, and to evaluate and improve our Service, products, services, and your experience.

We do not share Your personal information.

**Retention of Your Personal Data**
The NICS organization that You are accessing will retain Your Personal Data only for as long as is necessary for the purposes set out in this Privacy Policy. We will retain and use Your Personal Data to the extent necessary to comply with our legal obligations (for example, if we are required to retain your data to comply with applicable laws), resolve disputes, and enforce our legal agreements and policies.
The NICS organization that You are accessing will also retain Usage Data for internal analysis purposes. Usage Data is generally retained for a shorter period of time, except when this data is used to strengthen the security or to improve the functionality of Our Service, or We are legally obligated to retain this data for longer time periods.

**Transfer of Your Personal Data**
We will not transfer your personal data.

**Disclosure of Your Personal Data**
Law enforcement
Under certain circumstances, the NICS organization that You are accessing may be required to disclose Your Personal Data if required to do so by law or in response to valid requests by public authorities (e.g. a court or a government agency).
Other legal requirements

The NICS organization that You are accessing may disclose Your Personal Data in the good faith belief that such action is necessary to:
Comply with a legal obligation
Protect and defend the rights or property of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Lincoln Laboratory
Prevent or investigate possible wrongdoing in connection with NICS
Protect the personal safety of Users of NICS or the public
Protect against legal liability

**Security of Your Personal Data**
The security of Your Personal Data is important to Us, but remember that no method of transmission over the Internet, or method of electronic storage is 100% secure. While We strive to use commercially acceptable means to protect Your Personal Data, We cannot guarantee its absolute security.

**Children's Privacy**
Our Service does not address anyone under the age of 13. We do not knowingly collect personally identifiable information from anyone under the age of 13. If You are a parent or guardian and You are aware that Your child has provided Us with Personal Data, please contact Us. If We become aware that We have collected Personal Data from anyone under the age of 13 without verification of parental consent, We take steps to remove that information from Our servers.
If We need to rely on consent as a legal basis for processing Your information and Your country requires consent from a parent, We may require Your parent's consent before We collect and use that information.

**Links to Other Websites**
Our Service may contain links to other websites that are not operated by Us. If You click on a third party link, You will be directed to that third party's site. We strongly advise You to review the Privacy Policy of every site You visit.
We have no control over and assume no responsibility for the content, privacy policies or practices of any third party sites or services.

**Changes to this Privacy Policy**
We may update Our Privacy Policy from time to time. We will notify You of any changes by posting the new Privacy Policy on this page.
We will let You know via email and/or a prominent notice on Our Service, prior to the change becoming effective and update the "Last updated" date at the top of this Privacy Policy.
You are advised to review this Privacy Policy periodically for any changes. Changes to this Privacy Policy are effective when they are posted on this page.
Contact Us
If you have any questions about this Privacy Policy, You can contact us at help.nicsapp@gmail.com
